[Music]
you know everything about a firetruck
makes a stop and look at it
they're big bright loud kind of like me
and they carry brave people who save
lives but have you ever wondered why
they're red the answer isn't 100% clear
but there are a few theories out there
the volunteer theory the earliest fire
departments in the 1800s were made up of
volunteer firefighters since they were
unpaid good Samaritans with hardly any
funding they didn't have much money to
spend on equipment and that included the
paint they'd use on their trucks back
then red was the cheapest color of paint
you could buy so they went with a
budget-friendly option the traditional
red stuck and today it could be a way to
honor our first firefighters competition
another theory says that back when fire
departments ran on volunteers there was
a lot of pride and competition between
departments from town to town red was
the most sought-after color because it's
bold and catches the eye departments
wanted their trucks to stand out because
they were a source of pride in unity
think about the feeling of camaraderie
you'll get when you wear your favorite
football teams colors same idea they
couldn't just be like other cars in the
early 1900's Ford was the vehicle
superstar all the cars they sold were
black fire departments wanted their
trucks to stand out among the thousands
of dark vehicles and wagons on the road
after all the thing they're driving
should get some attention and priority
right well red would do the job and
still does today
the psychological theory to this day we
inherently associate red with an
emergency or danger fire extinguishers
hydrants stop signs and lights they're
all bright red like a cherry the color
red alone can even increase your heart
rate it also makes you hungry which is
why it's the go-to hue for so many fast
food restaurants it makes sense that
fire trucks would be painted a color
that's
psychologically puts you on alarm you
need to spot them quickly really feel
that sense of urgency and get out of
their way the color Theory going off
that psychological theory the color one
could explain exactly why red has become
the standard for emergency vehicles
lights and sides we all know that colors
of the rainbow and the acronym that
helps us remember their order Roy G bill
there's a reason red comes first
scientists measure how quickly a color
reaches our eyes and wavelengths the
higher the wavelength the faster our eye
catches that color red has the highest
wavelength of all the other colors of
the rainbow
so our brain registers it first that way
a red emergency vehicle will
automatically stick out among the rest
well there's not one definitive reason
why most fire trucks are red other
colors have been used for them or at
least some are in the bag of ideas for a
new firetruck color for example studies
have shown that while the red hue
reaches our eyes first in the daytime
it's not best for at night when it's
dark out our eyes are better at seeing
colors with a smaller wavelength like
greens and blues some cities have
adopted one of these colors for their
fire trucks instead of the traditional
crimson other places have even more
surprising colors like orange pink
yellow and lime green
hey don't giggle yet that might not be a
bad idea especially that last one
researchers have found that red fire
trucks are in three times more road
accidents than those of other colors in
fact lime or yellowish green seems to be
the best color that accommodates our
eyesight during both day and night
according to one New York optometrist so
why haven't we switch things up across
the board
perhaps it's the psychological
associations with red or maybe the
tradition that's held on so near and
dear to our hearts what do you think
should we change the color of our fire
trucks or stick with red
what color would you pick let me know
your take down in the comments while
you're typing away I've got some other
cool fire truck facts to fill your plate
number one
what's with the Dalmatians ever wondered
about the association between these
monochromatic spotted canines and the
fire department these super smart and
trainable dogs were the first emergency
sirens back in the days when fire
engines were pulled by horses a
Dalmatian would run ahead of them and
bark loudly to clear the path we have
fancy sirens for that now but plenty of
departments like to keep the pooch
around for tradition sake to the
earliest fire engine was from ancient
Greece it was only a large pump in an
aqueduct system that shot water but the
concept evolved in ancient Greece
it took some 1700 years for it to appear
in Europe where it developed into the
horse-drawn fire engine with
industrialization the firetruck
eventually grew into the life-saving
engineering marvel that we know today
three fire truck versus fire engine now
we might use the terms interchangeably
but they're two different things the
fire engine is what brings the pumps and
hoses to the scene while the truck
delivers all the ladders in case they're
needed the fire engine usually arrives
at a fire first since it has the water
and hydraulic equipment needed to fight
the fire plus any chemicals that could
help the truck transports all the
firefighters to the scene along with all
their safety equipment for the ladders
firefighters are trained to go up sky
high on these ladders but no worries
they're built to remain stable in 50
mile-per-hour winds we tend to think of
fires is something that happens out in
the country or in the woods but they
occur in skyscrapers too nicknamed the
Bronto short for brontosaurus these
ladders can get firefighters up to 300
feet in the air just don't look down
five the pumper tanker and ladder trucks
when you see a fire engine and a fire
truck at a st.
there are really three different kinds
of firefighting superpowers between them
the pumper truck holds the big fire
hoses and helps connect them to the fire
hydrants the tanker truck holds a large
tank of water just in case something
goes wrong with a fire hydrant
the latter truck well it's got the
Bronto of course six that price tag
though these trucks are a huge piece of
machinery built to help save lives such
an important vehicle comes with a hefty
price tag not to mention they must be
equipped with the latest technology and
they need regular maintenance to stay in
tip-top shape depending on what
equipment it carries and how big the
fire truck is they cost between 500,000
and 1 million dollars seven how big are
they when I said they're a huge piece of
machinery I'm in it fire trucks can be
up to 42 feet long and weigh an
astounding 40 tons New York firefighters
train for two weeks to learn how to
drive these giants part of their
training uses a virtual simulator and an
obstacle course that they must pass
eighth the fastest fire truck in the
world it's called the Hawaiian Eagle and
get this it's rocket power it holds the
record for the fastest fire truck in
existence and it can reach speeds up to
four hundred seven miles per hour
flames actually shoot out of the back of
it it's not used to fight fires anymore
but it's still pretty mind-blowing 9
water versus foam it takes a lot less
foam to put a fire out than it does
water chemically it's way more efficient
foam suppresses the flames better than
water and it keeps whatever's fueling
the fire from coming in contact with
more oxygen having foam inside those
hoses instead of water makes them
lighter and easier to handle - 10
surprising horsepower a fire truck alone
is heavy plus it carries a ton of
equipment you may assume that there
should be loads of horsepower under the
hood
so that the truck can get the scenes
quickly surprisingly the average fire
truck only has around 500 horsepower 11
the lights and sirens it's a little
known fact that the flashing lights and
super loud siren are on the fire engine
not the truck since the engine goes
ahead of the truck it needs to be the
one with all those visual and auditory
signals so that everyone can get out of
the way for the fire truck and the
firefighters it's carrying also all the
blinding lights and deafening sirens
shouldn't disorient the brigade they
need to be at their best when they
arrive on the st. so they can put out
that fire bottom line firefighters rush
into danger when everyone else is
running away that's why they deserve our
respect and our thanks hey if you learn
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend
here are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life